Abstract

We are looking to explore the effects of Mode-mismatching in the 
interferometer using Finesse tools. This will tell us the overall 
effect of each mode-matching system in various parts in the 
overall scheme of Advanced LIGO and beyond. 

1 Introduction

Using the Quantum-limited sensitivity as the metric for whether 
or not something is well mode-matched, we look to vary the 
optical parameters to induce a less than perfect noise curve to 
see how LIGO's sensitivity will be affected by mode-mismatch. The 
two ways of implmenting a mode-mismatch will be to either change 
the radii of curvature (RoCs) of the optics that make up the 
resonant cavities as well as the auxillary optics in between the 
cavities. By changing the RoCs we are effectively adding a 
thermal lens to the optical system and seeing the effects of 
mode-mismatch on the sensitivity

An interesting question arises about the effects of the mismatch 
on squeezed light that is filtered using a high finesse filter 
cavity. In all of the curves below, we modeled an interferometer 
that utilizes 10 db of squeezing and a filter cavity based off of 
(insert link here, Matt's realistic filter cavity), which is a 16 
meter linear fabry-perot cavity.

2 Varying the SRC Losses

The graph below shows the sensitivity of the interferometer with 
varying losses in the signal recycling cavity by changing the 
radius of curvature of the SRM. Physically, this would correspond 
to adding a heating element around the barrell of the optic. The 
percentage in mode-mismatch is calculated using the overlap 
integral between the nominal q-parameter and the q-paramter that 
is detected when applying the new curvatures. You can see that 
even applying a 4 percent mode-mismatch, you lose almost all the 
beneficial effects of squeezing. [float Figure:
 <Graphics file: /home/thomasvo/Documents/MM_WriteUp/FinesseModeling/VarySRC.png>
 [Figure 1:
Varying SRC
]<default> 
]

3 Varying the FC Losses

The filter cavity is designed to attenuate the rise in low 
frequency noise when applying a squeezer. The losses that are 
suffered by an imperfect end mirror in the cavity is shown below. 
What we see is a loss in effeciveness of the cavities filtering 
capabilities and the interferometer output looks like a purely 
shot-noise squeezed sensitivity curve. The FC is a high finesse 
cavity, which means it depends highly on the end mirror being a 
near perfect.

[float Figure:
 <Graphics file: /home/thomasvo/Documents/MM_WriteUp/FinesseModeling/VaryEMFC.png>
 [Figure 2:
Varying EMFC Transmission
]<default> 
]

[float Figure:
 <Graphics file: /home/thomasvo/Documents/MM_WriteUp/FinesseModeling/VaryIMFC.png>
 [Figure 3:
Varying IMFC
]<default> 
]

In figure 4, we vary the radius of curvature of the filter cavity 
input coupler and see the benefits disappear and the cavity pole 
rise in frequency and amplitude. [float Figure:
 <Graphics file: /home/thomasvo/Documents/MM_WriteUp/FinesseModeling/VaryFC_RoC.png>
 [Figure 4:
Varying IMFC Roc
]<default> 
]

4 Varying the Sqz/FC to the IFO

In between the squeezer/filter cavity setup are two lenses which 
act as a telescope to get the beam shape correct before entering 
the OFI and mixing with the interferometer.

[float Figure:
 <Graphics file: /home/thomasvo/Documents/MM_WriteUp/FinesseModeling/VarySqzTele.png>
 [Figure 5:
Varying IMFC
]<default> 
]

5 Varying the input to the OMC

The mode-matching devices prior to entering the OMC will be 
needed for correction.

[float Figure:
 <Graphics file: /home/thomasvo/Documents/MM_WriteUp/FinesseModeling/VaryOM1_RoC.png>
 [Figure 6:
Varying IMFC
]<default> 
]

